software.md, before:

# Lab Software

Useful software/web resources that the lab uses

# Reference Manager

We use [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) as a reference manager for organizing, sharing, reading, and annotating journal articles.
Zotero is free to use, but the free plan does have a limit to how many PDFs it can store or sync to your personal library.
If you join the [Bruna Lab group Zotero collection](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2603950/heliconia-frag-drought), however, this shouldn't be an issue <!--# actually it is, its out of space now -->.
We recommend you download the desktop version of Zotero and install the browser connector.

# Slack

We will use the lab Slack as our main every day way of communication.
Use it to ask questions, share resources, celebrate successes, or just to chat.
Eric almost always has Slack open when he's working, and Emilio checks in often as well.

# Zoom

Meetings will be held over Zoom.
If you don't already have Zoom installed, get started [here](https://ufl.zoom.us/)

# R and RStudio

We primarily use the statistical programming language [R](https://cran.r-project.org/) for data wrangling and analysis.
It's best to interact with R through [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/).
Both are free, and you should install both if you're going to use your personal computer.

## Getting started with R

-   [Data Analysis and Visualization in R for Ecologists](https://datacarpentry.org/R-ecology-lesson/index.html) from Data Carpentry is a good book for beginner to intermediate R users.
-   [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/) is a great book for beginner to intermediate R users that focuses on practical skills related to wrangling, visualizing, and exploring data (but not statistics) using the [tidyverse](https://www.tidyverse.org/). This book assumes you know a little bit about R, so it's probably not appropriate for those completely new to R or programming.

# Git and GitHub

Git is a [version control](https://peerj.com/preprints/3159/) software that is probably already installed on your computer if you use a mac, and can be installed for Windows [here](https://git-scm.com/download/win).
GitHub is this website right here!
It's a website for collaboratively interacting with git-tracked projects.
You will be trained in the use of git and GitHub as it will be an important way for us to share code and collaborate on projects.

## Resources and reference

-   RStudio [webinar](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/webinars/managing-part-2-github-and-rstudio/) on version control in general and using Git and GitHub through RStudio.
    A bit old (2016), but it's not out of date.

-   [How to use Git with R and RStudio](https://www.geo.uzh.ch/microsite/reproducible_research/post/rr-rstudio-git/) is a web tutorial focused on using Git and GitHub from within RStudio.

-   A comprehensive guide for working with git and GitHub through RStudio: <https://happygitwithr.com/>

Commit message:

added some packages to the list

software.md, after:

# Lab Software

Useful software/web resources that the lab uses

# Reference Manager

We use [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) as a reference manager for organizing, sharing, reading, and annotating journal articles.
Zotero is free to use, but the free plan does have a limit to how many PDFs it can store or sync to your personal library.
If you join the [Bruna Lab group Zotero collection](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2603950/heliconia-frag-drought), however, this shouldn't be an issue <!--# actually it is, its out of space now -->.
We recommend you download the desktop version of Zotero and install the browser connector.

# Slack

We will use the lab Slack as our main every day way of communication.
Use it to ask questions, share resources, celebrate successes, or just to chat.
Eric almost always has Slack open when he's working, and Emilio checks in often as well.

# Zoom

Meetings will be held over Zoom.
If you don't already have Zoom installed, get started [here](https://ufl.zoom.us/)

# R and RStudio

We primarily use the statistical programming language [R](https://cran.r-project.org/) for data wrangling and analysis.
It's best to interact with R through [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/).
Both are free, and you should install both if you're going to use your personal computer.

## Getting started with R

-   [Data Analysis and Visualization in R for Ecologists](https://datacarpentry.org/R-ecology-lesson/index.html) from Data Carpentry is a good book for beginner to intermediate R users.
-   [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/) is a great book for beginner to intermediate R users that focuses on practical skills related to wrangling, visualizing, and exploring data (but not statistics) using the [tidyverse](https://www.tidyverse.org/). This book assumes you know a little bit about R, so it's probably not appropriate for those completely new to R or programming.

# Git and GitHub

Git is a [version control](https://peerj.com/preprints/3159/) software that is probably already installed on your computer if you use a mac, and can be installed for Windows [here](https://git-scm.com/download/win).
GitHub is this website right here!
It's a website for collaboratively interacting with git-tracked projects.
You will be trained in the use of git and GitHub as it will be an important way for us to share code and collaborate on projects.

# Some useful R packages for getting started

-  [Tidyverse](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/tidyverse/index.html): a set of packages for importaing, tidying, and visualizing data (and so much more).
-  [usethis](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/usethis/index.html): Automate Package and Project Setup

## Resources and reference

-   RStudio [webinar](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/webinars/managing-part-2-github-and-rstudio/) on version control in general and using Git and GitHub through RStudio.
    A bit old (2016), but it's not out of date.

-   [How to use Git with R and RStudio](https://www.geo.uzh.ch/microsite/reproducible_research/post/rr-rstudio-git/) is a web tutorial focused on using Git and GitHub from within RStudio.

-   A comprehensive guide for working with git and GitHub through RStudio: <https://happygitwithr.com/>
